# ring-statistics

The ring statistics code runs on Jupyter Notebook and it requires ASE (https://wiki.fysik.dtu.dk/ase/about.html).
This code works mainly with .md files generated by CASTEP. 

How to run the code;
1. Create a folder where all the files are located. 
2. In the code change the path to the path of the folder. 
3. In the line with the following code `sio2.append(read(path+name, index=':')[25002::100])`, change the `[25000::100]`, to the amount of frames that needs to be analysed.
4. In the periodic boundary make sure to change the size of the simulation box to fit the system that is being analysed. 
5. If more than one calculation is being analysed uncomment the "Average of all the calculations" section.
  - This will provide an average of all the calculations. 
6. The section for "Errors on the averages" only works on a single calculation for now, hence, if more than one calculation is being analysed comment that part. 
7. Saving the data is at it states, to save the data in a .csv file. Make sure to change the name to something sensible. 
8. For plotting the data there are two variants;
  - The first variant only works for a single calculation, hence comment the other variant. 
  - The second variant only works with multiple calculations, hence commet the other variant. 

#To do
1. Modify the "Error on the averages" section to work for not just a single calculation. 
2. Add error calculations for each ring size. 
3. Add error bars to the histogram. 
4. Adjust the code so that only one variant of plotting is needed.  
